---
layout: Post
title: Day 1 - 100 Days Of JS | 100 Days Of JS
subtitle: Story of Const, Let, Var and where to use it.
date: 2022-04-20
author: darkRaspberry
useHeaderImage: False
headerImage: /img/post/100daysofjs.webp
headerMask: rgba(40, 57, 101, .5)
tags: 
  - javascript
  - 100DayOfCode
---

## Hi!

After a long time I gather enough determination to write a blog everyday and talk about it on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/darkraspberry/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/devRaspberry)

## What I learned today?
DAY 1 - Things which is most important I learned today.
 - Scopes difference between data types in JS.

In JS ES5, There is only 1 data types we can define as *var*. But After ES6 we get 2 new data types in JS. As new options came we have a obvious problem which one to use and when to use.

## Story of Const, Let, Var
Now we have 3 dudes and a problem. **What is the difference between const, let, var?

Well do the f*** you want, But for sake of programming lets see their scopes.

 - **var** - Function in which the variable is declared.
 - **let** - Block in which the variable is declared.
 - **const** - Block in which the variable is declared.

## Points to remember for today
- So we can see **var** can be used when we want to use any variable across the function.
- Also **let** can be used in loops and if-else statements.
- And **Const** can be used when the value is not going to change through out the block. 

Also remember these rules, If you can apply restriction to any variables then please apply to it.
 - Don’t use **var**, because **let** and **const** is more specific.
 - Default to **const**, because it cannot be re-assigned or re-declared.
 - Use **let** when you want to re-assign the variable in future.
 - Always prefer using **let** over **var** and **const** over **let**.

Happy JS, Bye for now! 👋